specs/wallet/1.0/draft/wallet-api.md, before:

---
layout: githubmd
title: Wallet API Specification 1.0 Draft
---
# Wallet Server Overview

The Wallet Server API aims to solve two problems:

1. Synchronizing wallets across different clients/devices
2. Maximizing security in consideration of usability and practicality

We aim to accomplish this by mixing strong encryption and traditional login-based security in order to get the advantages of each.

## Basics

### User Credentials

The security is based around providing the user with two credentials:

1. **backupKeyphrase**  
    The backupKeyphrase is a 160-bit random number generated by the
    client when creating a new wallet.

      It can be represented in any way so long as the client can
    interpret it. However, for interoperability, we define some
    standard ways of representing it:

    - When displayed as text it should be converted to an encodedKeyphrase:

          encodedKeyphrase = base58(keyphraseSpec)
          keyphraseSpec    = 8F versionByte backupKeyphrase miniChecksum
          miniChecksum     = substr(keyphraseHash, 0, 2))
          keyphraseHash    = sha256(backupKeyphrase)

      The version byte for version 1 of the standard shall be
      0x00. The encoding is chosen to look different than a Bitcoin
      address in order to avoid confusion.

      Example:

      <pre>
      backupKeyphrase  = D7B199EB8BD3E23F1ACCB2B138F1706FC78C0AFA<sub>16</sub>
      keyphraseHash    = FC3000902542C82846F7FF37F57B8D8BC9292B6942CD9B30BA8F3CCC2EAE9158<sub>16</sub>
      keyphraseSpec    = 8F                         // Identifier
                         00                         // Version Byte
                         D7B199EB 8BD3E23F 1ACCB2B1 // Keyphrase
                         38F1706F C78C0AFA
                         FC30                       // Checksum
      encodedKeyphrase = "E38dyTYsR7i6Gd8SJsmKd9du92MPvEXV9"
      </pre>

    - It can also be represented as a URL in the format

          walletUrl = "bjswallet://" walletHost "/" encodedKeyphrase

      Example:

          bjswallet://wallet.webcoin.ch/E38dyTYsR7i6Gd8SJsmKd9du92MPvEXV9

    - The URL can be used to create a QR code.

      Example:

      <img src="walletqr.png" alt="Wallet as QR-Code"/>

    The backupKeyphrase MUST NEVER be stored in persistent memory on a
    device that is connected to a network and/or can run arbitrary
    code. It provides full, unrestricted access to the corresponding
    wallet.

    It SHOULD be stored in printed form or on a USB stick in a secure
    location. The user should choose a location where he would feel
    comfortable storing an equivalent amount of cash. For a small
    Bitcoin wallet, the printed code could be stored in a physical
    wallet, for a larger amount it could be stored in a safe or safety
    deposit box.

    Clients MAY also offer other highly secure storage such as
    hardware-based security dongles, smart cards, etc.

2. **pin**  
    The pin by default is a random string matching the regular
    expression \[a-z2-9]{6} and is generated by the wallet server. The
    wallet server MAY choose a different default length and/or
    character set and MAY allow its users to manually change the pin.

    e.g. `tha8ec`

    The pin is intended to authenticate the user during day-to-day
    use. It is not long enough to be cryptographically strong, but is
    strong enough as a login password together with server-side
    measures such as limiting the number of attempts and disabling
    pin-based access in case of a large scale attack.

    The server MAY implement whatever policies it wants with respect
    to the pin, however they should be such as to defend against both
    a small-scale attack (single client's accessKey compromised) 


### Derived Credentials

1. **masterKey**  
   The masterKey is derived from the backupKeyphrase using ANSI
   X9.63-KDF with the following parameters:

   <dl>
       <dt>Hash</dt><dd>SHA256</dd>
       <dt>SharedInfo</dt><dd>
           <pre>72f57f2f9ed68aa0d46d460d33bf66a267cc382d<sub>16</sub></pre>
       </dd>
       <dt>keydatalen</dt>
       <dd>256</dd>
   </dl>

2. **cstoreKey**  
   The cstoreKey is stored on the server and can be requested by the
   client using accessKey + pin.

Other derived credentials are:

- **accessKey**  
  *sha256<sup>2</sup>("walletid" masterKey)*  
  This is what the server uses to identify wallets. It is stored on
  both server and client.

- **passKey**  
  *sha256<sup>2</sup>("walletpass" masterKey)*  
  This is what the server uses to authenticate wallet-changing
  requests. A hash of it is stored on the server. It MUST NOT be
  stored on the client.

## Stored Information

### Wallet Server
The wallet server stores the following items for each wallet:

- **accessKey**  
  *sha256<sup>2</sup>("walletid" masterKey)*  
  This is what the server uses to identify wallets.

- (Some hash of) **passKey**  
  *sha256<sup>2</sup>("walletpass" masterKey)*  
  The server should store a salted hash of this value.

- **cstoreKey**  
  *Server-generated, random 256-bit key*  
  This is used by the client to decrypt the cstore, see section "CSTORE path" below for details.

- **walletAdresses\[]**  
  This contains the actual wallet information as an array of JSON objects. Each object represents a key and associated metadata:

      {
        "priv": "enc!uXAMSAla6LwMSAlYixQk0fqBwogMSAmJFCTDagJV/zU=",
        "pub": "!BHi5G6SazJRzTZeppFcLv/yBHqcvrBJdhUl4+NDv0ri1khxLGO+QeXXj0KFwjulNmnBKU0ZR96hpHgFY55wiSxA=",
        "desc": "!Bitcoin Faucet"
      }

  Each keyInfo object can only contain strings.

  Each string starts with an identifier denoting its format:

  - `!` - Unencrypted, standard string
  - `enc!` - Following data is encrypted using masterKey and encoded
    as base64
  - `b64!` - Following data is encoded as base64

  Clients MUST ignore keyInfo fields they don't know or that use an
  unknown encoding identifier.

  Private keys MUST be encrypted by default, however they can be
  unencrypted if the user so chooses.

  Public keys SHOULD be unencrypted by default. Note that wallet
  servers may impose a minimum balance or limit storage space based on
  balance, encrypted public keys will not count towards the balance in
  that case. The server MAY reject encrypted public keys.

### Client
The client stores the following items for each wallet. Clients MAY
support multiple wallets.

- **accessKey**  
  *sha256<sup>2</sup>("walletid" masterKey)*  
  This is what the server uses to identify wallets.

- **cstoreBox**  
  *aes256(key=cstoreKey, data=masterKey)*  
  This is used by the client to turn the cstoreKey sent by the server
  after login into the masterKey needed to decrypt the private parts
  of the wallet.

- **walletAddresses\[]**  
  Same as on server. See above.

## Server API

- **wallet/create**  
  Server will receive a new wallet. Note that this will create an
  empty wallet, the actual data will be uploaded later using
  wallet/add.

  Request:

  - accessKey - sha256<sup>2</sup>("walletid" masterKey)
  - passKey - sha256<sup>2</sup>("walletpass" masterKey)
  - cstoreKey - 256-bit random key

  Response:

  - pin - User login password

  Error Conditions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
  format
  - InvalidPassKey - The passKey does not follow the correct format
  - InvalidCstoreKey - The cstoreKey does not follow the correct
  format
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try
  again later

- **wallet/login**  
  Authenticate the pin for a wallet.

  Request:

  - accessKey - Stored on client
  - pin - User-entered

  Response:

  - cstoreKey - Allows client to decrypt cstoreBox, providing
    masterKey.

  Comment:

  The wallet may be locked after a number of failed login attempts.

  "Locking a wallet" means that wallet/login will only respond with
  the WalletLocked error until wallet/access is called. 

  Error Conditions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
    format
  - UnknownAccessKey - No wallet found for this accessKey
  - InvalidPin - The pin was incorrect
  - InvalidPinLocked - Too many wrong pins entered, account has been
    locked
  - WalletLocked - The account was already locked
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try again later

- **wallet/access**  
  Get the current pin for a wallet and reset the number of pin attempts.

  Request:

  - accessKey - Derived from backupKeyphrase
  - passKey - Derived from backupKeyphrase

  Response:

  - pin - Current pin

  Error Conditions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
    format
  - UnknownAccessKey - No wallet found for this accessKey
  - InvalidPassKey - The passKey does not follow the correct format
  - IncorrectPassKey - The passKey did not match the one on file
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try again later

- **wallet/add**  
  Upload new keyInfo objects for this wallet.

  Request:

  - accessKey - Stored on client
  - passKey - Derived from masterKey (client must be active in order
    to create new keys)
  - walletAddresses - Array of keyInfo objects

  Error Conditions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
    format
  - UnknownAccessKey - No wallet found for this accessKey
  - InvalidPassKey - The passKey does not follow the correct format
  - IncorrectPassKey - The passKey did not match the one on file
  - RejectData - The server rejects the keyInfo objects (reason
    provided in error messge)
  - QuotaExceeded - The wallet is too large, the client should re-use
    existing keys and/or display an error.
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try again later

- **wallet/download**  
  Download the walletAddresses for this wallet.

  Request:

  - accessKey - Stored on client
  - passKey - Can be derived from masterKey which is derived from
    backupKeyphrase

  Response:

  - walletAddresses - Array of keyInfo objects

  Error Conditiions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
    format
  - UnknownAccessKey - No wallet found for this accessKey
  - InvalidPassKey - The passKey does not follow the correct format
  - IncorrectPassKey - The passKey did not match the one on file
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try again later

- **wallet/changepin**  
  Change the pin by request of the user.

  Request:

  - accessKey - Stored on client
  - passKey - Derived from masterKey, which is available from either
    the old pin or the backupKeyphrase
  - pin - Desired pin

  Error Conditions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
    format
  - UnknownAccessKey - No wallet found for this accessKey
  - InvalidPassKey - The passKey does not follow the correct format
  - IncorrectPassKey - The passKey did not match the one on file
  - PinChangeNotAllowed - This server does not allow custom pins
  - InvalidPin - The pin was not accepted by the server
  - InvalidPinChars - The pin contains characters that are not part of
    the acceptable set of characters
  - InvalidPinTooShort - The pin is too short
  - InvalidPinTooLong - The pin is too long
  - InvalidPinNotSecure - The server thinks the pin is not secure
    enough (servers MAY check pins against a password dictionary)
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try again later

- **wallet/lock**  
  Intentionally lock a wallet.

  Request:

  - accessKey - Stored on client

  Comment:

  This is equivalent to send several requests to wallet/login with
  false pins and may be useful if the accessKey is known to be
  compromised. If that is the case the client SHOULD call wallet/lock,
  immediately followed by creating a new wallet and allowing the user
  to transfer his/her Bitcoins over to the fresh wallet.

  Error Conditions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
    format
  - UnknownAccessKey - No wallet found for this accessKey
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try again later

- **wallet/delete**  
  Delete a wallet from the server.

  Request:

  - accessKey - Stored on client
  - passKey - Derived from masterKey, which is available from either
    the old pin or the backupKeyphrase

  Comment:

  The server MUST offer this function to allow users to delete any
  unencrypted personal information stored on this server.

  When the server is no longer trusted, the client MUST generate a new
  backupKeyphrase. The client SHOULD offer the user the option to
  transfer his Bitcoins to a fresh address or set of
  addresses. However the old addresses SHOULD remain part of the new
  wallet, unless otherwise directed by the user.

  After a wallet is deleted, the server should respond with
  UnknownAccessKey to requests concerning that wallet.

  Error Conditions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
    format
  - UnknownAccessKey - No wallet found for this accessKey
  - InvalidPassKey - The passKey does not follow the correct format
  - IncorrectPassKey - The passKey did not match the one on file
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try again later

## Algorithms

### Creating a new wallet

1.  Generate backupKeyphrase, a random integer from 0 to 2<sup>160</sup>-1.
2.  Generate cstoreKey, a random integer from 0 to 2<sup>256</sup>-1.
3.  Derive masterKey, accessKey from backupKeyphrase.
4.  Derive passKey from masterKey.
5.  Encrypt masterKey using cstoreKey, producing cstoreBox.
6.  Call API wallet/create. Server responds with pin.
7.  Create a new array walletAddresses.
8.  For i in 1..n do
  1. Generate an ECC private key.
  2. Derive the public key from the private key.
  3. Encrypt the private key using masterKey.
  4. Create a JSON object keyInfo containing the public key and the encrypted
     private key.
  5. Add keyInfo to the walletAddresses Array.
9.  Call API wallet/add to upload walletAddresses.
10. Save accessKey, cstoreBox, walletAddresses to disk.
11. Display backupKeyphrase and pin to user.

The masterKey is now in memory for the duration of the session.

### Unlocking a wallet using the pin
1. Let user input pin.
2. Call API wallet/login. Server responds with cstoreKey.
3. Decrypts masterKey from cstoreBox using cstoreKey.

The masterKey is now in memory for the duration of the session.

### Retrieving a wallet online using the backupKeyphrase

This is usually used to install an existing wallet on a new
client. Another case could be to restore the wallet after a hard drive
crash, lost cell-phone, etc.

1. Let user input backupKeyphrase (as text or from QR.)
2. Derive masterKey, accessKey from backupKeyphrase.
3. Derive passKey from masterKey.
4. Call API wallet/access. Server responds with pin.
5. Call API wallet/download. Server responds with walletAddresses.
6. Encrypt masterKey using cstoreKey, producing cstoreBox.
7. Save accessKey, cstoreBox, walletAddresses to disk.
8. Display pin to user.

The masterKey is now in memory for the duration of the session.

### Retrieving a wallet offline using the backupKeyphrase

In case the wallet server is no longer accessible, the user can use
this procedure to restore his/her wallet locally.

1. Let user input backupKeyphrase (as text or from QR.)
2. Derive masterKey from backupKeyphrase.

The masterKey is now in memory for the duration of the session.


## Lazy authentication

Clients SHOULD be able to operate as much as possible without
authentication.

The following operations SHOULD NOT require activating the wallet:

- Display balance  
  If some public keys are encrypted (their data starts with "enc!")
  the client should mark the balance in parentheses to denote that it
  may not be the full balance available and update it once the wallet
  is unlocked.

- Display address book information  
  The client SHOULD let the user browse the address book where that
  information is not encrypted.

- Create new addresses  
  The client SHOULD try and have a small contingent of extra addresses
  that it can display to the user. If that reserve runs out the client
  MUST require the user to active the wallet before new addresses are
  generated.

- Queue actions  
  The client SHOULD allow the user to enter transactions and add them
  to a queue for later transmission. This is useful for both when the
  user can't or currently doesn't want to login and for when there is
  no Internet connection available.

  The client should clearly display the number of queued actions and, on
  request, list the exact actions that are queued to prevent
  unauthorized users from "sneaking" transactions into the queue.

Commit message:

Changed parentheses to square brackets to avoid confusion.
Parenthesis are commonly used to denote a negative balance/amount.

specs/wallet/1.0/draft/wallet-api.md, after:

---
layout: githubmd
title: Wallet API Specification 1.0 Draft
---
# Wallet Server Overview

The Wallet Server API aims to solve two problems:

1. Synchronizing wallets across different clients/devices
2. Maximizing security in consideration of usability and practicality

We aim to accomplish this by mixing strong encryption and traditional login-based security in order to get the advantages of each.

## Basics

### User Credentials

The security is based around providing the user with two credentials:

1. **backupKeyphrase**  
    The backupKeyphrase is a 160-bit random number generated by the
    client when creating a new wallet.

      It can be represented in any way so long as the client can
    interpret it. However, for interoperability, we define some
    standard ways of representing it:

    - When displayed as text it should be converted to an encodedKeyphrase:

          encodedKeyphrase = base58(keyphraseSpec)
          keyphraseSpec    = 8F versionByte backupKeyphrase miniChecksum
          miniChecksum     = substr(keyphraseHash, 0, 2))
          keyphraseHash    = sha256(backupKeyphrase)

      The version byte for version 1 of the standard shall be
      0x00. The encoding is chosen to look different than a Bitcoin
      address in order to avoid confusion.

      Example:

      <pre>
      backupKeyphrase  = D7B199EB8BD3E23F1ACCB2B138F1706FC78C0AFA<sub>16</sub>
      keyphraseHash    = FC3000902542C82846F7FF37F57B8D8BC9292B6942CD9B30BA8F3CCC2EAE9158<sub>16</sub>
      keyphraseSpec    = 8F                         // Identifier
                         00                         // Version Byte
                         D7B199EB 8BD3E23F 1ACCB2B1 // Keyphrase
                         38F1706F C78C0AFA
                         FC30                       // Checksum
      encodedKeyphrase = "E38dyTYsR7i6Gd8SJsmKd9du92MPvEXV9"
      </pre>

    - It can also be represented as a URL in the format

          walletUrl = "bjswallet://" walletHost "/" encodedKeyphrase

      Example:

          bjswallet://wallet.webcoin.ch/E38dyTYsR7i6Gd8SJsmKd9du92MPvEXV9

    - The URL can be used to create a QR code.

      Example:

      <img src="walletqr.png" alt="Wallet as QR-Code"/>

    The backupKeyphrase MUST NEVER be stored in persistent memory on a
    device that is connected to a network and/or can run arbitrary
    code. It provides full, unrestricted access to the corresponding
    wallet.

    It SHOULD be stored in printed form or on a USB stick in a secure
    location. The user should choose a location where he would feel
    comfortable storing an equivalent amount of cash. For a small
    Bitcoin wallet, the printed code could be stored in a physical
    wallet, for a larger amount it could be stored in a safe or safety
    deposit box.

    Clients MAY also offer other highly secure storage such as
    hardware-based security dongles, smart cards, etc.

2. **pin**  
    The pin by default is a random string matching the regular
    expression \[a-z2-9]{6} and is generated by the wallet server. The
    wallet server MAY choose a different default length and/or
    character set and MAY allow its users to manually change the pin.

    e.g. `tha8ec`

    The pin is intended to authenticate the user during day-to-day
    use. It is not long enough to be cryptographically strong, but is
    strong enough as a login password together with server-side
    measures such as limiting the number of attempts and disabling
    pin-based access in case of a large scale attack.

    The server MAY implement whatever policies it wants with respect
    to the pin, however they should be such as to defend against both
    a small-scale attack (single client's accessKey compromised) 


### Derived Credentials

1. **masterKey**  
   The masterKey is derived from the backupKeyphrase using ANSI
   X9.63-KDF with the following parameters:

   <dl>
       <dt>Hash</dt><dd>SHA256</dd>
       <dt>SharedInfo</dt><dd>
           <pre>72f57f2f9ed68aa0d46d460d33bf66a267cc382d<sub>16</sub></pre>
       </dd>
       <dt>keydatalen</dt>
       <dd>256</dd>
   </dl>

2. **cstoreKey**  
   The cstoreKey is stored on the server and can be requested by the
   client using accessKey + pin.

Other derived credentials are:

- **accessKey**  
  *sha256<sup>2</sup>("walletid" masterKey)*  
  This is what the server uses to identify wallets. It is stored on
  both server and client.

- **passKey**  
  *sha256<sup>2</sup>("walletpass" masterKey)*  
  This is what the server uses to authenticate wallet-changing
  requests. A hash of it is stored on the server. It MUST NOT be
  stored on the client.

## Stored Information

### Wallet Server
The wallet server stores the following items for each wallet:

- **accessKey**  
  *sha256<sup>2</sup>("walletid" masterKey)*  
  This is what the server uses to identify wallets.

- (Some hash of) **passKey**  
  *sha256<sup>2</sup>("walletpass" masterKey)*  
  The server should store a salted hash of this value.

- **cstoreKey**  
  *Server-generated, random 256-bit key*  
  This is used by the client to decrypt the cstore, see section "CSTORE path" below for details.

- **walletAdresses\[]**  
  This contains the actual wallet information as an array of JSON objects. Each object represents a key and associated metadata:

      {
        "priv": "enc!uXAMSAla6LwMSAlYixQk0fqBwogMSAmJFCTDagJV/zU=",
        "pub": "!BHi5G6SazJRzTZeppFcLv/yBHqcvrBJdhUl4+NDv0ri1khxLGO+QeXXj0KFwjulNmnBKU0ZR96hpHgFY55wiSxA=",
        "desc": "!Bitcoin Faucet"
      }

  Each keyInfo object can only contain strings.

  Each string starts with an identifier denoting its format:

  - `!` - Unencrypted, standard string
  - `enc!` - Following data is encrypted using masterKey and encoded
    as base64
  - `b64!` - Following data is encoded as base64

  Clients MUST ignore keyInfo fields they don't know or that use an
  unknown encoding identifier.

  Private keys MUST be encrypted by default, however they can be
  unencrypted if the user so chooses.

  Public keys SHOULD be unencrypted by default. Note that wallet
  servers may impose a minimum balance or limit storage space based on
  balance, encrypted public keys will not count towards the balance in
  that case. The server MAY reject encrypted public keys.

### Client
The client stores the following items for each wallet. Clients MAY
support multiple wallets.

- **accessKey**  
  *sha256<sup>2</sup>("walletid" masterKey)*  
  This is what the server uses to identify wallets.

- **cstoreBox**  
  *aes256(key=cstoreKey, data=masterKey)*  
  This is used by the client to turn the cstoreKey sent by the server
  after login into the masterKey needed to decrypt the private parts
  of the wallet.

- **walletAddresses\[]**  
  Same as on server. See above.

## Server API

- **wallet/create**  
  Server will receive a new wallet. Note that this will create an
  empty wallet, the actual data will be uploaded later using
  wallet/add.

  Request:

  - accessKey - sha256<sup>2</sup>("walletid" masterKey)
  - passKey - sha256<sup>2</sup>("walletpass" masterKey)
  - cstoreKey - 256-bit random key

  Response:

  - pin - User login password

  Error Conditions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
  format
  - InvalidPassKey - The passKey does not follow the correct format
  - InvalidCstoreKey - The cstoreKey does not follow the correct
  format
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try
  again later

- **wallet/login**  
  Authenticate the pin for a wallet.

  Request:

  - accessKey - Stored on client
  - pin - User-entered

  Response:

  - cstoreKey - Allows client to decrypt cstoreBox, providing
    masterKey.

  Comment:

  The wallet may be locked after a number of failed login attempts.

  "Locking a wallet" means that wallet/login will only respond with
  the WalletLocked error until wallet/access is called. 

  Error Conditions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
    format
  - UnknownAccessKey - No wallet found for this accessKey
  - InvalidPin - The pin was incorrect
  - InvalidPinLocked - Too many wrong pins entered, account has been
    locked
  - WalletLocked - The account was already locked
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try again later

- **wallet/access**  
  Get the current pin for a wallet and reset the number of pin attempts.

  Request:

  - accessKey - Derived from backupKeyphrase
  - passKey - Derived from backupKeyphrase

  Response:

  - pin - Current pin

  Error Conditions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
    format
  - UnknownAccessKey - No wallet found for this accessKey
  - InvalidPassKey - The passKey does not follow the correct format
  - IncorrectPassKey - The passKey did not match the one on file
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try again later

- **wallet/add**  
  Upload new keyInfo objects for this wallet.

  Request:

  - accessKey - Stored on client
  - passKey - Derived from masterKey (client must be active in order
    to create new keys)
  - walletAddresses - Array of keyInfo objects

  Error Conditions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
    format
  - UnknownAccessKey - No wallet found for this accessKey
  - InvalidPassKey - The passKey does not follow the correct format
  - IncorrectPassKey - The passKey did not match the one on file
  - RejectData - The server rejects the keyInfo objects (reason
    provided in error messge)
  - QuotaExceeded - The wallet is too large, the client should re-use
    existing keys and/or display an error.
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try again later

- **wallet/download**  
  Download the walletAddresses for this wallet.

  Request:

  - accessKey - Stored on client
  - passKey - Can be derived from masterKey which is derived from
    backupKeyphrase

  Response:

  - walletAddresses - Array of keyInfo objects

  Error Conditiions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
    format
  - UnknownAccessKey - No wallet found for this accessKey
  - InvalidPassKey - The passKey does not follow the correct format
  - IncorrectPassKey - The passKey did not match the one on file
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try again later

- **wallet/changepin**  
  Change the pin by request of the user.

  Request:

  - accessKey - Stored on client
  - passKey - Derived from masterKey, which is available from either
    the old pin or the backupKeyphrase
  - pin - Desired pin

  Error Conditions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
    format
  - UnknownAccessKey - No wallet found for this accessKey
  - InvalidPassKey - The passKey does not follow the correct format
  - IncorrectPassKey - The passKey did not match the one on file
  - PinChangeNotAllowed - This server does not allow custom pins
  - InvalidPin - The pin was not accepted by the server
  - InvalidPinChars - The pin contains characters that are not part of
    the acceptable set of characters
  - InvalidPinTooShort - The pin is too short
  - InvalidPinTooLong - The pin is too long
  - InvalidPinNotSecure - The server thinks the pin is not secure
    enough (servers MAY check pins against a password dictionary)
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try again later

- **wallet/lock**  
  Intentionally lock a wallet.

  Request:

  - accessKey - Stored on client

  Comment:

  This is equivalent to send several requests to wallet/login with
  false pins and may be useful if the accessKey is known to be
  compromised. If that is the case the client SHOULD call wallet/lock,
  immediately followed by creating a new wallet and allowing the user
  to transfer his/her Bitcoins over to the fresh wallet.

  Error Conditions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
    format
  - UnknownAccessKey - No wallet found for this accessKey
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try again later

- **wallet/delete**  
  Delete a wallet from the server.

  Request:

  - accessKey - Stored on client
  - passKey - Derived from masterKey, which is available from either
    the old pin or the backupKeyphrase

  Comment:

  The server MUST offer this function to allow users to delete any
  unencrypted personal information stored on this server.

  When the server is no longer trusted, the client MUST generate a new
  backupKeyphrase. The client SHOULD offer the user the option to
  transfer his Bitcoins to a fresh address or set of
  addresses. However the old addresses SHOULD remain part of the new
  wallet, unless otherwise directed by the user.

  After a wallet is deleted, the server should respond with
  UnknownAccessKey to requests concerning that wallet.

  Error Conditions:

  - InvalidAccessKey - The accessKey does not follow the correct
    format
  - UnknownAccessKey - No wallet found for this accessKey
  - InvalidPassKey - The passKey does not follow the correct format
  - IncorrectPassKey - The passKey did not match the one on file
  - ServerError - A server-side error occurred, the client should try again later

## Algorithms

### Creating a new wallet

1.  Generate backupKeyphrase, a random integer from 0 to 2<sup>160</sup>-1.
2.  Generate cstoreKey, a random integer from 0 to 2<sup>256</sup>-1.
3.  Derive masterKey, accessKey from backupKeyphrase.
4.  Derive passKey from masterKey.
5.  Encrypt masterKey using cstoreKey, producing cstoreBox.
6.  Call API wallet/create. Server responds with pin.
7.  Create a new array walletAddresses.
8.  For i in 1..n do
  1. Generate an ECC private key.
  2. Derive the public key from the private key.
  3. Encrypt the private key using masterKey.
  4. Create a JSON object keyInfo containing the public key and the encrypted
     private key.
  5. Add keyInfo to the walletAddresses Array.
9.  Call API wallet/add to upload walletAddresses.
10. Save accessKey, cstoreBox, walletAddresses to disk.
11. Display backupKeyphrase and pin to user.

The masterKey is now in memory for the duration of the session.

### Unlocking a wallet using the pin
1. Let user input pin.
2. Call API wallet/login. Server responds with cstoreKey.
3. Decrypts masterKey from cstoreBox using cstoreKey.

The masterKey is now in memory for the duration of the session.

### Retrieving a wallet online using the backupKeyphrase

This is usually used to install an existing wallet on a new
client. Another case could be to restore the wallet after a hard drive
crash, lost cell-phone, etc.

1. Let user input backupKeyphrase (as text or from QR.)
2. Derive masterKey, accessKey from backupKeyphrase.
3. Derive passKey from masterKey.
4. Call API wallet/access. Server responds with pin.
5. Call API wallet/download. Server responds with walletAddresses.
6. Encrypt masterKey using cstoreKey, producing cstoreBox.
7. Save accessKey, cstoreBox, walletAddresses to disk.
8. Display pin to user.

The masterKey is now in memory for the duration of the session.

### Retrieving a wallet offline using the backupKeyphrase

In case the wallet server is no longer accessible, the user can use
this procedure to restore his/her wallet locally.

1. Let user input backupKeyphrase (as text or from QR.)
2. Derive masterKey from backupKeyphrase.

The masterKey is now in memory for the duration of the session.


## Lazy authentication

Clients SHOULD be able to operate as much as possible without
authentication.

The following operations SHOULD NOT require activating the wallet:

- Display balance  
  If some public keys are encrypted (their data starts with "enc!")
  the client SHOULD mark the balance in square brackets to denote that
  it may not be the full balance available and update it once the
  wallet is unlocked. It SHOULD also provide a help icon,
  notification, tooltip or some other way for the user to find out
  what the square brackets mean.

- Display address book information  
  The client SHOULD let the user browse the address book where that
  information is not encrypted.

- Create new addresses  
  The client SHOULD try and have a small contingent of extra addresses
  that it can display to the user. If that reserve runs out the client
  MUST require the user to active the wallet before new addresses are
  generated.

- Queue actions  
  The client SHOULD allow the user to enter transactions and add them
  to a queue for later transmission. This is useful for both when the
  user can't or currently doesn't want to login and for when there is
  no Internet connection available.

  The client should clearly display the number of queued actions and, on
  request, list the exact actions that are queued to prevent
  unauthorized users from "sneaking" transactions into the queue.
